Object oriented programming is a way to model real world objects, as software objects,
which contains both data and code.
Classes are fundamental component of Object oriented programming.
Class based programming starts with classes, which becomes blueprints for objects.
What are objects?
So what I'd like you to do, is just have a look around, in the area, you're sitting in right now.
And if you do that, you'll find that there's many examples of real-world objects.
For example, I'm sitting here and I can see: a computer; I can see a keyboard
I can see a microphone; I can see shelves on the wall; I can see a door.
All of these are examples of real-world objects.

Now, Real world objects have two major components: state; and behavior.
So State, in terms of a computer object, might be: the amount of RAM it has; the operating system
it's running; the hard drive size; the size of the monitor

These are characteristics about the item, that can describe it. We could also describe animate objects,
like people or animals, or even insects, like an ant. For an ant, the state might be:
the age; the number of legs; the conscious state; whether the ant is sleeping or is awake.

In addition to state, objects may also have behavior, or actions that can be performed by the object,
or upon the object. Behavior, for a computer, might be things like: booting up; shutting down;
beeping, or outputting some form of sound; drawing something on the screen, and so on.
All of these could be described as behaviors for a computer. For an ant, behavior might be: eating; drinking;
fighting; carrying food, those types of things.

So modelling real world objects as software objects, is a fundamental part of Object Oriented Programming.

Now, A software object stores its state in fields, which can also be called variables, or attributes.
And Objects expose their behavior with methods, which we've talked about before. So, where does a class fit in?
Well, think of a class as a template, or a blueprint for creating objects.

Let's take another look at the class.
The class describes the data (fields), and the behavior (methods), that are relevant to the
real-world object we want to describe. These are called class members. A class member can be
a field or a method, or some other type of dependent element.

If a field is static, there is only one copy in memory, and this value is associated with the class,
or template, itself.
If a field is not static, it's called an instance field, and each object may have a different value
stored for this field. A static method can't be dependent on any. one object's state,
so it can't reference any instance, members. In other words, any method that operates on instance fields,
needs to be non-static. So these class or member fields, can be thought of as variables,
though it's more common to call them fields or attributes.

When you're creating classes in Java, the first letter should be an upper case letter.

So, first thing what I want you to notice is, this public class Car.
So, that's actually the statement to create a new class with the name Car.
Now, the public keyword is an access modifier. This lets us determine what access others will have to this
new class that we're creating. We haven't talked about how classes are organized,
so let's just look at that briefly, before we talk about access.

Classes can be organized into logical groupings, which are called packages. You declare a
package name in the class using the package statement.
If you don't declare a package, the class implicitly belongs to the default package.

A class is said to be a top-level class, if it is defined in the source code file,
and not enclosed in the code block of another class, type, or method.
A top-level class has only two valid access modifier options: public, or none.
So the word public gives unrestricted access to a class.
public means any code can access this class.

Java by default implicitly allows package-private access. This means that classes grouped into the same package,
 can access the class.

So remember that a class is a blueprint for an object, that we're going to be creating.

Now to date, you've seen variables used inside a method or code block.
And these were called local variables, because they were local to, or actually belonged to,
that method or code block. But, we couldn't access those local variables outside of the method,
or block, we declared them. Classes allow us to create variables that can be seen, or are accessible,
by any code block within that class. But we can also allow access from outside the class itself.

When we're designing our class, there are some things we want the public to know, and some things
that aren't necessary for the public to know. We can have a public interface.
This is only the information the outside world needs to know, to use our class.

But we'll also have a non-public interface. This is information we may want to share but not always,
and not with everyone. We may need to share some information with our own company and other departments,
while other data might need to be shared with our manufacturers and dealers, but not with the public.

Java gives us the ability to have this kind of control, by specifying different access modifiers for each member in a class.
An access modifier at the member level, allows granular control over class members.

The valid access modifiers are shown in this table from the least restrictive, to the most restrictive.

Here, you can see that public is still an option for class members, like it was for the class,
and this means there is unrestricted access to the member.
We also still have no modifier, which means package, or package-private by default,
so that any class in the same package, can access this member.

We could also use private, which is basically the opposite of public, and that's where no code, outside the class,
can use this field or method. And finally, there's the protected modifier.
This one also allows package access, but it also permits subclasses to access this member.

As a general rule, all your fields should be private, unlike the class, where we'll usually use public.
So why would we want to make all the fields on a class private?
Doesn't this mean that nobody can access them? This practice has a name, encapsulation,
and it's a key fundamental rule of Object Oriented Programming.

Encapsulation in Object Oriented Programming usually has two meanings.
One is the bundling of behavior and attributes on a single object.

The other is the practice of hiding fields, and some methods, from public access.
In general, when we talk about encapsulation, we're talking about information hiding,
or hiding the internal workings of a particular object.

When we make our attributes private, we can then create methods to access the data,
each with different degrees of access allowed, as needed.

We'll add some fields, which are characteristics of the car. So what kind of things might you be interested in,
when describing a car?
Maybe things like the make or manufacturer, the model, its color, how many doors does it have,
is it a convertible? So let's add these fields, then we'll talk a little about them.

These are fields, because they are defined in the class's code block, or the body of the class,
and not in a method. When we create an object from this class, then the values we assign to these fields
represent the state of the object.
Unlike local variables, class variables should have some type of access modifier declared for it.
If you don't declare one, Java declares the default one (package private), implicitly.

The other thing you might have noticed is that we're not actually assigning any values yet.
This is because, at this point, we don't know what these values might be, and they'll likely
be different for each instance anyway.

Methods, unlike fields, will often be public, because we want to give users away to interact with the object.

Now how do we create instances / objects of a class?
First we'll declare a variable of type Car, calling the variable simply, 'car', and then
we'll assign it a new instance of the Car class.

What we're going to do, is allow access to this data, either to set it or get it, through methods on this class.
These are a special set of methods, called getters and setters. So, what are getters and setters?
A getter is a method on a class, that retrieves the value of a private field, and returns it.
A setter is a method on a class, that sets the value of a private field.

The purpose of these methods is to control, and protect, access to private fields.
Another important aspect, is that the getter and setter method signatures are part of car's public interface,
but the attribute names and types aren't.

This means that we can change things internally, like the name or type of an attribute,
but as long as we use the same getter and setter method, these changes should have no effect on code that uses our class.
Our internal changes are hidden from our users.

A getter method usually just returns the value of a private attribute.

A setter method may simply just assign the argument passed to the attribute, but it often contains code
to validate data, check additional security requirements, ensure immutability of the field value,
or any other code required to protect and validate an object's state.

======Constructors====
It is a little tedious, to call the setter method for each field while constructing an object.
Another option is to pass this data to something called a constructor.
A constructor is used in the creation of an object, that's an instance of a class.
It is a special type of code block that has a specific name and parameters, much like a method.
It has the same name as the class itself, and it doesn't return any values.
You never include a return type from a constructor, not even void.
You can, and should, specify an appropriate access modifier, to control who should be able to create new instances of the class.

So what you can do with a constructor is, you can essentially do all the statements we've done here,
to set the initial parameters, or the initial values of the fields.
And you can include any other initialization code, you want to perform, in the constructor.

So, when you actually type new, and the name of the class, and then parentheses, this is actually calling the constructor.
We didn't explicitly create a constructor
If a class contains no constructor declarations, then a default constructor is implicitly declared.
This constructor has no parameters and is often called the no-args (no arguments) constructor.
If a class contains any other constructor declarations, then a default constructor is NOT implicitly declared.

it's important to just understand that a constructor exists, whether you explicitly declare one or not.
This is why creating an object with the new keyword, and passing no arguments in the parentheses is supported in nearly all cases.

So this code is actually calling that special method that creates the class.
So its purpose is to physically create the object from the class for us.

Constructor chaining is when one constructor explicitly calls another overloaded constructor.
You can call a constructor, only from another constructor.
You must use the special statement this() to execute another constructor,passing it arguments if required.
And this() must be the first executable statement, if it's used from another constructor.